Israel has not only violated the
principles and the provisions of
international law but has actually and
literally bummed international law
Israel over the last two months have
done something much more damaging to our
Humanity not just to our
sanity taking Center Stage today is
hosam zlut palestine's ambassador to the
United Kingdom before his posting to the
UK Ambassador zlet was head of the PLO
mission to the United States in this
episode he reflects on the war in Gaza
the double standards it exposed the road
to peace and responds to questions about
Palestinian
leadership thank you so much for joining
me on stage Ambassador hosam zlet you've
spoken a lot about how this war is
exposed an alarming double standard when
it comes to Western media coverage when
it comes to
the fairness and the application and the
enforcement of international
law and I wondered whether you could
tell me perhaps share with us one moment
during the last two months where you've
seen that double standard reveal itself
to you where it's really hit home there
were many many moments but the one
constant theme of all those is the
double standards down the line it's a
constant it's not just a oneoff double
standard media ators politicians they
would even fail to recognize that Israel
is violating international law most of
the questions are leading questions and
the idea is practically speaking to box
you uh uh in a defensive corner and to
make you lose before you start the
moment they tell you do you condemn then
you are the accused and that question
has many other presumptions one of which
you the Palestinian people are the
instigators of violence and what is much
more dangerous than all that is the
level of
racism because most of these interviews
that I have conducted as an example
before me would be the Israeli
Ambassador and given that Israel has
committed way more atrocities and crimes
failing to ask the same question means
and that's why I referred to it as
racism anti- Palestinian racism
anti-muslim racism so not asking Israeli
officials to condemn the much more
documented crimes against humanity and
asking us means that they would want us
to acknowledge and accept that our lives
matter less with all the history
complications before October 7th have
you seen it as an opportunity to
Enlighten people to win people over
because we have seen a shift I'm sure
you degree on the Streets of London the
us all over the world there are many
reasons for it one of which is the
atrocious
murderous
unhuman uh uh uh attacks by the Israeli
air strikes and the images that have
shocked shocked to the very core
Humanity second reason in my opinion is
you the youth and I see a room full of
people and the activism that came from
Palestine our
youngsters and Arab Muslim
International white black cross
community activism I was reading some uh
statistics on uh Tik Tok uh uh the one
hashtag got uh uh something like 37
billion which is free Palestine 37
billion uh uh so there was a revolution
using the new alternative platforms
media social media media media has been
responsible for defiling the Palestinian
cause desecrating the Palestinian
struggle and on the other hand
legitimizing giving some sort of a cover
moral legal political cover for Israeli
crimes for the people of the world it is
no longer just about Palestine and they
have followed that Israel has not only
violated the principles and the
provisions of international law but has
actually and literally bombed
international law they have bombed the
UN premises the UN buildings all these
people see that Israel is also
corrupting their own achievements and
societies like liberal democracies that
Israel is dragging the West into its
immoral orbit of
wars that their own rights the right to
of expression the right to assemble the
right to protest the right to speak have
been threatened it's like in the UK you
have the Home
Secretary calling our marches marches of
hate wanting to ban them so people of
the world seeing the effect on them they
are also seeing that Israel over the
last two months have done something much
more damaging to our Humanity not just
to our sanity which is the normalization
of the mass murder of
children of families the mass
destruction of homes the question a lot
of people are asking is why isn't
anything being done about this and you
mentioned the United Nations there's a
lot of criticism against the United
Nations at the moment as a body and I
wonder the PLO fought for so long to get
a seat at the table the PLO believed in
this institution that the Palestinians
could have a voice there you were
ambassador to the UN for a long time do
you still believe that that that having
a seat at the UN pays off for
Palestinians oh yes absolutely
the actual starting point of the
Palestine cause issue question was in
1917 when Britain where I am serving now
as an ambassador issued the Belford
declaration that belfer declaration
represented
the the colonial arrogance at the time
they have promised our land my land
without any consultation to another
society that were not even in the land
to European Jews we the natives who have
lived there for thousands of years the
card of civilizations The Hub between
Ean the birthplace of
Christianity and at the time 1917 we
were 98% of the population and owned 96%
of the land and we were turned into
non-jewish what does it mean non-jewish
minorities it means that they denied us
our people's hood that we are not a
people we are just non-jewish minorities
we are not Palestinians that time to the
time when we force our Collective
presence when we snatch our recognition
from the jaws of colonialism and
arrogance and racism and Hony is not a
small achievement it took our people
Decades of struggle and that's why it's
it's brutal to start history from the
seventh of October history began in 1917
and our people have been in a constant
state of struggle and revolutions and
intifadas so we have a seat in the UN
the US blocked our ability to become a
full member state but we are a state in
the UN the US also last week voted
against a resolution to implement
humanitarian ceasefire what does that
tell you about the ability of the UN to
get anything done tells me bad news and
good news the bad news is that the US
remains to be
uh uh completely off
balance completely employing domestic
Politics on global issues Israel in the
US is not a foreign policy issue Israel
in the US is a domestic issue and once
the issue is domestic forget it your
foreign policy would become extremely
problematic it will be based on
shortterm narrow political C
calculations for politicians rather than
for the state do do you think that's a
major reason why there is so much
inaction when it comes to this war
because it is a domestic issue in the US
yes it's a major part and in the US
there is a disproportionate power for
interest groups of course but it goes
beyond that it is now proven Beyond
doubt that the us alone cannot play the
role of mediator it is an opportunity to
bring an end to the US Monopoly over the
peace process that has led us to where
we are it is an opportunity to bring
other major key international players on
the table and turn peacemaking into a
multilateral uh approach rather than the
Monopoly uh and the Soul mediation that
the US has been insisting over for 30
years and has failed to
deliver let's talk about the world after
the war so many Palestinians want to
know Ambassador what is the plan for
Gaza after the bombs fall silent and the
rockets stop
Flying
there is no plan for Gaza there is a
plan for Palestine Gaza is an integral
beloved part of Palestine and uh uh any
plan has to include Jerusalem the West
Bank and Gaza in one integral Geographic
and political and National Arena this
two-state solution I don't like the term
two-state solution because it assumes
that there are no States and we have to
create two states there is already one
state and that state is occupying the
other area uh I'd like to say we must
end the occupation uh end Israel's
occupation establish a state of
Palestine on the 1967 borders with
Jerusalem as our capital and implement
the right of return for our refugees
this is a sacred right because it is our
homes I'm one of them that uh uh as much
as there is collective claim to our
homes there is a private claim this is
private property uh so yeah these are
our demands primarily the Palestinian
people in Gaza in Jerusalem in the West
Bank in the diaspora inside the green
line need to see their rights fulfilled
how do we get there though because right
now as things stand no one sees the hope
no one sees the feasibility of
implementing a two-state solution no one
sees the
feasibility of Peace actually and when I
speak to Palestinians with all due
respect they don't see Vision they don't
see leadership either from the
Palestinian side and we can put to one
side the role that Israel and the us has
played in this because many people in
this room can see that and can agree on
that but what do you say to Young
Palestinians who for instance say why
not be bolder why not call for new
elections now why not bring in as you
would agree all the Bright Young
Palestinian Minds that are fully capable
of ushering us into peace recently I
said maybe we are not the greatest
nation on Earth but I don't think there
is any nation that is greater than us
and that has been proven by Deeds not
words if the amount of pressure that has
been put on us for the last 75 years
non-stop from the nakba until the nakba
has been exercised with any other people
I don't know what would have happened to
them but because we are rooted rooted in
history and in identity such a nation
would achieve peace such a nation would
find a way to survive that's number one
and we have survived and such a such a
nation will in in the end enforce its
will we are much closer to that than
what our enemies want us to believe much
closer one thing is saying it Mr
Ambassador and the other thing is seeing
the feasibility of it you know from the
conversations I'm having people don't
see it right now why not start now why
not try something new make a collective
effort to draw out a path forward we do
the Palestinian people have their way to
flip the table and they always have the
way to take things in the Direction They
believe it should be the Palestinian
people have a way when they when they
measure the temperature and know when
things is R too so don't worry look at
all other issues conflicts
revolutions struggles look at South
Africa it took more than 300 years it
also took a Mandela yeah it but okay of
but we we have
yes but we have 300 we have 13 million
mandelas and there is
a we we we do we do every Palestinian
mother that has been able to deal with
this horrific unprecedented catastrophe
in Gaza still caring for her mother is a
Mandela every Palestinian teacher that's
still able to bring in our kids the best
is a Mandela how on Earth did we survive
this that's a good question how did we
survive this how did we survive the
greatest power of the time Britain
conspiring against us how did we survive
France delivering uh uh the uh the
nuclear weapon to Israel how did we
survive since then America providing
every single ability for Israel to
commit its crimes and to Shield Israel
from any political or legal
how did we survive all this on our own
that's the question that is the question
and I tell you we survived it because we
as a nation are united people talk about
divisions divisions are between
political parties but the people of
Palestine are united and the people of
Palestine have their legitimate
political system that is the PLO the
Palestine Liberation Organization which
they have fought to achieve we have one
flag one flag and that flag
the the uh white red green and black
these four colors have become the symbol
of global
anti-oppression have become the symbol
of the fight for justice worldwide
people do not wave the flag only because
it's a Palestinian flag it has become
their flag you know the Palestinian kfia
has become the the symbol for the global
youth for resilience huh for challenging
the status quo for the change they seek
so you tell me we are weak we are uh
desperate no we are not weak we are
being oppressed repressed killed our
homes are being destroyed but we are not
failing I want to wrap on a more
personal note here um we're seeing
Israeli forces close in on hunis moving
into the southern part of Gaza tens of
thousands of people are being packed
into places like
Rafa um where kids are
grieving they're having to start their
lives over they're starving and they're
living in tents you yourself Mr
Ambassador were born in a refugee camp
in Rafa if you could speak to a
Palestinian boy a young Palestinian boy
who's there right now and he asked
you Mr zlet what happens next what would
you tell
him
I don't have a crystal
ball but I'll tell him you belong to a
very special and great
nation I'll tell him that uh he must be
part of that Journey I'll tell him he
should be proud of his ancestors of his
parents and
grandparents uh I'll tell him that love
is way more important than
hate uh that he has to have or she has
to have so much love for their people
and their country you know the one thing
that makes Palestinians Palestinians is
that we really love our I love our
people that's that's the key thing and I
I think there will be a huge challenge
after the latest aggression uh uh on
Gaza to make sure that it's not hate
that will take over its love and I'll
tell him what what really makes us so
resilient is not the investment in our
in our physical capital but in our human
capital yes I was born in a refugee camp
uh in RAF I am the son of the
so the people who raised me were the
actual people who were forced out their
homes in 1948 my grandparents and my
parents and I remember very well living
the most perfect life you can imagine
for child why because we had such a
strong sense of community togetherness
why because we have Collective shared
memory why because we know what connect
us is one the what connect us and unite
us is the fact of our oppression we are
all oppressed wherever we are in Gaza in
Jerusalem in Khal in Nablus in in in in
the diaspora and the refugee camps and
what connect us is our Collective goal
you asked me about Nelson Mandela about
every single Palestinian I answered you
is a Nelson Mandela because the heroism
I have been following only the stories
of Palestinian doctors and nurses in
Gaza you cannot imagine this has never
they have given a new level of nobelity
to the profession of medicine
[Applause]
[Music]
they in other words you would tell that
little boy it's all going to be okay
okay I'll tell that boy uh it will it
will be okay but it will take him and
his generation to pick from where we
ended and to keep the March the March
might be slow the March might be full
with feeling of betrayals sometimes I
must admit we may feel alone but we are
definitely definitely on our way Mr
Ambassador thank you so
[Applause]
[Music]
much